So first let's be certain
that our EC2 instances in these subnets
do not have access to the internet.
So to do so, let's go into the EC2 console
and we're going to be launching an instance
into these subnets.
To do so, I'm clicking on launch instances.
And in here I scroll down Amazon Linux 2.
T2.micro, this is good.
I will not select the key pair.
And for network settings, I will edit them.
In here, I will choose the VPC address created
named DemoVPC.
And from there, I'm able to choose whatever subnet I want.
For example, I can use public subnet A.
We have 251 IP addresses in there
so I can launch my instances here.
And as you can see,
the setting auto assigned public IP is currently disabled.
This is because we need to,
if we wanted to get a public IPv4 address
to enable this, of course.
But why is it disabled by default?
Whereas when I go and select a subnet from before,
it is actually enabled by default, if you try it.
So the idea is that if you go into your subnet settings,
you're going to see that
and let's go in here, the public subnet A right here.
If I do action and then edit subnet settings.
In here I'm able to enable
the auto-assigned public IPv4 address
which is something we do want for our public subnets.
So I have to enable it for the public subnet A,
and then also I need to enable it
for the public subnet B.
So action and then edit subnet settings and then save.
And so what's going to happen
is that if I now refresh this page entirely
to create a new instance again,
but this time I go into the network settings
and say, edit.
I will go to DemoVPC.
I will choose public subnet A.
And as you can see now, by default,
the auto-assigned public IP setting is set to enable.
So we modified the default in our subnets
and it got reflected into the EC2 instance launch console.
This is good.
So we get to create a new security group
and we add the SSH rule on port 22,
because we will SSH into our EC2 instance.
The rest looks good so let's go ahead
and launch this instance,
and we're good to go.
And now my instance is running.
As we can see it has been assigned a public IPv4 address.
So it turns out that it has a public IPv4 address
but does not have internet connectivity.
How do we make sure?
Well, for example, let's try to connect
to this instance using EC2 Instance Connect
and then click on connect.
So remember we did open the SSH rule on our instance
yet there was a problem connecting to our instance.
It turns out that's maybe the instance network settings
are not correctly configured.
So this is where the internet gateway comes in.
So let's go ahead and add an internet gateway.
So this is my VPC.
And as you can see, there's no matching internet gateway.
By the way, if I remove the filter,
we can see there's already internet gateway
attached to my default VPC.
So let's create an internet gateway
and I'll call this one DemoIGW,
so internet gateway's IGW
and click on create internet gateway.
So very, very simple.
It's been created and it's in detached states.
So what we need to do is to attach it to a VPC
and obviously the VPC we're going to attach it to
is our DemoVPC.
So now my internet gateway is attached into a VPC
which provides internet access into our VPC.
So if we try again, the EC2 Instance Connect,
is this going to work?
So let's try to connect again.
And as we can see, yet again,
there is a problem connecting to your instance.
So what is happening?
Well, even though we have an internet gateway,
we need to give it a route.
And so we need to edit the route table.
So if we have a look at this route table right here,
this is a default route table.
And the default route table
is going to be associated with subnets
that don't have an explicit route-table association.
So currently this default route table,
main route table, is associated with four subnets,
but I don't like it.
I think there's much better
to have explicit subnet associations.
So what I'm going to do
and I'm going to create two route tables.
So I'll call it PublicRouteTable
and then we'll assign it to this VPC.
This is going to be assigned to my public subnets.
And then I'm going to create a second route table
called the PrivateRouteTable.
And again, assigned to my DemoVPC.
And the reason we do so is that I want to assign my subnets
to the right route table.
So the public route table should have subnet associations.
We're going to edit then.
And we're going to add all the public subnets
into my public route table.
So I click on save.
And then my PrivateRouteTable,
again, I will edit the subnet associations
and I will assign them the private subnets, A and B.
So let's save these associations.
Okay, we're good.
So as we can see my public and my private route tables
both have two subnets associated with them.
And it turns out that my main route table,
this one, does not have any subnet association
because all subnets have been assigned.
So this is better.
We've solved some problem.
Now let's go into our public route table.
Remember our EC2 instance was launched
into this public subnet.
So it's associated with the public route table.
And so what we want to do is to edit the routes
in our public route table.
So if you have a look at the route right now
in our route table, it turns out that we have a traffic rule
for 10.0.0.0/16 to go to local.
That means that any IP within our VPC,
so this is the VPC CIDR,
already corresponds to the VPC.
So it should be routed from within the VPC
hence the target is local.
But we can edit the routes and saying,
hey, I want to have a second route
and I'll take the first one.
So any IP, so this represents any IP.
So any IP that does not match this rule,
the target should be going to,
and as you can see there are a lot of different options
but for now it's an internet gateway
and we'll choose the internet gateway we just created.
So we're saying, hey, if this is a local IP in our CIDR,
just please make sure you route locally.
But if this is anything else,
including obviously public IPs,
then target is going to be the internet gateway.
So send traffic to the internet gateway.
We'll save these changes.
And now that we've done that, we should have given access
to the internet to our EC2 instance.
So let's retry.
So I'm going to take my EC2 instance,
click on EC2 Instance Connect and then connect.
And as we can see, now I am in my EC2 instance
and it is connected to the internet.
For example, I can do ping google.com.
And as you can see, we get some data back from Google.
So we are connected to the internet.
Everything is working great.
And currently what we've been doing
is giving internet access into our public subnets
with the public route table.
We don't know yet how to give internet access
into the private EC2 instances,
and we'll see how to do this in the next lectures.